Assessment submission form_modular 
Assessment Submission Form 
Student Name Shreya Narayanan, Nitasha Manjunath Shastry,Abasibiangake Essienubong,Wenzheng Huang, 
Yanfei Wang, Sreepa Sumesh, Aditya Manish Chauhan, Zihan Xu
Student Number 23211611, 23200847, 23206779,23205583, 23201350, 23208600, 23203702, 23205419
Assessment Title User Centered Design - Design Project
Module Title User Centered Design 
Module Co-ordinator Dr Madeleine Steeds
Tutor (if applicable)  
Date Submitted 
OFFICE USE ONLY 
Date Received 

OFFICE USE ONLY 
Grade/Mark 
A SIGNED COPY OF THIS FORM MUST ACCOMPANY ALL SUBMISSIONS FOR ASSESSMENT. 
STUDENTS SHOULD KEEP A COPY OF ALL WORK SUBMITTED.  
Procedures for Submission and Late Submission 
Ensure that you have checked the School’s procedures for the submission of assessments.  
Note: There are penalties for the late submission of assessments. For further information please see 
the University’s Policy on Late Submission of Coursework , (http://www.ucd.ie/registrar/ ) 
Plagiarism:  the unacknowledged inclusion of another person’s writings or ideas or works, in any 
formally presented work (including essays, examinations, projects, laboratory reports or 
presentations). The penalties associated with plagiarism designed to impose sanctions that reflect the seriousness of University’s commitment to academic integrity.  Ensure that you have read the University’s Briefing for Students on Academic Integrity  and Plagiarism  and the UCD Plagiarism  
Statement, Plagiarism Policy and Procedures , (http://www.ucd.ie/registrar/
) 
Declaration of Authorship 
I declare that all material in this assessment is my own work except where there is clear acknowledgement and appropriate reference to the work of others.  


Signed……………………………………… ……….  Date ……………………………………………
07/12/2023
Representing members of Group 201
Building Legal Understanding: 
A User Centered Approach to 
Accessible Legal Aid In Ireland
By Group 202 Group 20 Members
Student Name Student Number
Shreya Narayanan 23211611
 Nithasha Manjunath Shastry 23200847
Abasibiangake Essienubong 23206779
Wenzheng Huang 23205583
Yanfei Wang 23201350
Sreepa Sumesh 23208600
Aditya Manish Chauhan 23203702
Zihan Xu 232054193Index
1) Research and requirement gathering 
 Overview
 Background
` Project scope
 Design and HCI considerations
 Survey analysis
 Target interview
 Legal Aid Board member interview
 User Persona
2) Creative design and lo-fi prototype
 Card sorting 
 User flow
 Information architecture
 Lo-fi prototype 1
  User Story 1
 Lo-fi prototype 2
  User story 2
 Lo-fi 1 vs Lo-fi 2
3) Hi-fi prototype
 Lo-fi wireframe of hi-fi prototype
 Images of hi-fi prototype
4) Evaluation 
 App analysis according to Nielsens Heuristics & user testing
 Future scope of improvement
 Limitations of this evaluation 
 
5) Conclusion 
6) References
7) Appendices 
 Appendix A- Summary poster
 Appendix B- Survey questions
 Appendix C- Target interview questions
 Appendix D- Legal Aid Board interview qestions
 Apeendix E- Colour theory and typography
 4
145
155
166
17
586
18
587
19
595210
20
62532411
21
63552412
22
6455
55
56274
Research & 
Requirement Gathering5Overview
The amalgamation of technology and user-centred design offers remarkable opportunities to address chal -
lenges such as accessibility issues and information gaps faced by individuals seeking legal assistance in the 
ever-changing realm of legal services. This project aims to develop an app for both international visitors and 
residents in Ireland so they can be aware and be ensured a thorough understanding of their civil and consti -
tutional rights and facilitate access to affordable legal aid.
The solution offered here is also a way to address goal 16 of the 17 sustainable development goals drafted by 
the United Nations, which is to foster Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. This goal entails promoting the 
provision of peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development while providing access to justice 
for all and building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels (Goal 16 | Department of 
Economic and Social Affairs, n.d.). 
Background
Navigating a foreign country’s legal complexity can be a difficult and daunting task, especially for internation -
al civilians residing or visiting Ireland. And this is because concepts in different legal systems do not always 
map perfectly to each other whether it is in the structure of the judicial system or in the language (Allison, 
2023). Access to legal aid is hampered by the complexities of civil and constitutional rights, as well as unfa -
miliarity with the Irish legal system. But apart from that people in general, frequently struggle to understand 
legal jargon. Non-lawyers find it difficult to understand legal language because it is perceived as specialised, 
technical, and elevated (Hahn, 2023). The excessive detail, complicated sentence structures and the use of spe -
cific legal terminology are part of any legal language which further complicates one’s ability to comprehend 
and get familiar with what the law entails. And this is experienced by both nationals and non-nationals in any 
country. 
Another issue that emerges from accessing legal assistance is the affordability of these services. For those with 
limited financial means, the cost of legal services becomes an enormous challenge and hindrance to accessing 
assistance and exercising their rights. Legal services in Ireland are prohibitively expensive, including consul -
tations, representation, and court fees. Charges can be anywhere between 200 to 400 euros an hour and this 
makes access to justice a privilege rather than a right (“‘Few Practise Law for Fun, Fame or Philanthropy’: 
Ireland’s Legal Costs Problem,” n.d.).
This affordability issue is felt strongly by a diverse range of people, including immigrants, low-income fam -
ilies, and marginalised communities, who may require legal assistance but are unable to bear the associated 
costs. This challenge has far-reaching consequences, affecting individuals’ ability to defend their rights, seek 
justice, or navigate legal complexities in critical areas such as immigration, family law, and housing.
While there are state-funded services such as Legal Aid that exist to offer as the name suggests aid to those in 
need; the selection process is strict and these agencies are also overburdened with the amount of cases they 
need to deal with. (Vicious Cycle of Low Pay and Overwork Undermines Legal Aid, n.d.)
One such test - the means test which is used to determine eligibility for legal aid frequently focuses on income 
and assets, including other financial resources such as investments to assess if one really needs financial aid 
or can pay for their own representation. However, the eligibility only focuses on offering this service to those 
experiencing a serious charge. This traps those who do not qualify, experiencing what is deemed as not-so-se -
rious charges while in uncertain financial situations. As a result, people experiencing complex legal issues may 
be forced to navigate the legal system without proper representation, risking unjust outcomes and perpetuating 
a cycle of legal disenfranchisement. (Citizensinformation.Ie, n.d.-b)6Addressing the affordability of legal services is critical to creating a more just and equitable legal system. 
Initiatives that seek to broaden the reach of legal aid, streamline the means test process, and raise awareness 
about available resources are critical steps towards removing barriers that prevent all people from having equal 
access to justice. While these are initiatives that must be addressed from a policy perspective by policymakers 
and Judiciaries, what can facilitated is improving access to information and resources, building knowledge, 
and increasing affordability through not-for-profit initiatives that reduce individual dependence on publicly 
funded resources at the initial level. 
It is bearing this information and context in mind that this project recognises the need for an all-inclusive solu -
tion that bridges this knowledge gap while also facilitating affordable access to legal services. 
Project Scope
T  he primary goal of this project is to create a user-centric app that serves as a comprehensive legal companion 
for people unfamiliar with the Irish legal system. The app aims to achieve four primary goals:
To provide clear and accessible information on civil and constitutional rights
Affordable legal aid options 
Guidance through the legal system’s complexities and nuances
Connecting with legal service providers 
The app is designed with the specific needs of international visitors and residents in mind. Still, the non-dis -
criminatory nature of the laws and bureaucracy itself (citizensinformation.ie, n.d.) allows for this app to be 
employed as a valuable resource for everyone. 
Since this project deals with very personal and human issues, it was important for us to employ an approach 
that prioritises the needs of our users and their experience. It is recommended that there is continuous user 
involvement in any software development life cycle (SDLC) for a successful system implementation. (Majid 
et al., 2009) It calls for not just considering functionality in design but also non-functional elements such as 
personal pains, culture, inhibitions etc. And with an issue such as the legal rights of an individual, it is impos -
sible to ignore such empathetic criteria. 
It is with this criterion in mind that we decide to use the Design Thinking framework to direct our process 
with the development of this app. It is our understanding from past learning and research that design thinking 
can be an essential methodology for creating an inclusive design that is iterative and uses a methodology that 
keeps the user at the core of the development. (“What Is Design Thinking?”),   (Murauer, 2018). 
Another aspect that guided us through our design process was the chapter on designing applications for mobile 
devices by Lupanda, I. S., & Janse van Rensburg, J. T. (2021). This chapter highlights popular HCI principles 
and design principles for mobile applications considering that the application we designed is meant for mobile 
use, the guidelines outlined here became the governing factor of our design methodology.Design Process and HCI Considerations7Through both these methodologies we utilised the following tools and  aspects of HCI to define our process of 
creating a holistic user-centered app: 
• Usability and accessibility
• User-centred design
• Information Architecture
• User flow 
• Card Sorting 
• Prototyping
• User feedback and Iterative design 
Fig 1 Double diamond illustration of our design process, (made by 
the team)
In this phase, we aimed to understand our target users as well as explore the affordances and limitations of the 
Legal Aid Board that aims to offer legal assistance in civil cases under the Civil Legal Aid Act 1995 (Office of 
the Attorney General, n.d.). To do so we created a survey and conducted interviews & conversations with both 
a target audience and with a member of the Legal Aid Board.Discover 8The survey  covered:
Aspects of their background - age, geographical origin and state, and language familiarity. The results were 
as follows:
• Age: 18- 45
• Geography Origin: China, India, Europe
• English Language Familiarity: Fluent and Fluent but not proficient (fig 2.1) 
• Occupation: Students, Tech professionals & Finance professionals (fig 2.2, 2.3)
Fig 2.1 Survey graph: Language Proficiency
Fig 2.2 Survey graph: Occupation
Fig 2.3 Survey graph: Occupation Sector9In the next set of questions we aimed to understand the necessity of an app that makes legal aid and knowledge 
more accessible and we found that: 
• 43.8% of responders needed some form of assistance. (Fig 3.1)
• Most of the areas where assistance was primarily needed were issues related to Visa and migra -
tion, Employment and Tax, and Housing and rental agreements among others. (Fig 3.2) 
Fig 2.4 Survey graph: App Necessity
Fig 2.5 Survey graph: Legal Concerns
In the next set of questions, we tried to identify the features and design aspects that our users may want which 
gave us the base ground of features that we would have included in its interface. The key takeaways were: 
• Information and resources (fig 4.1, 4.2)
• Language Translation 
• Anonymous contacting for privacy issue 
• Finding Lawyers
• Connecting with lawyers
• Virtually via text, call, and video 10
Fig 2.6 Survey graph: App Necessity
Fig 2.7 Survey graph: Legal Concerns
Target Audience Interview Takeaway
Following the survey we conducted an interview with a willing participant to understand issues they faced 
with respect to their housing contract. Our participant is post postgraduate student who had moved to Ireland 
from China. 
They detailed pain points from their experience in finding adequate housing but especially pain points related 
to the legal implications of contracts or the lack thereof. Upon insistence from their landlord, our participant 
moved into the house without signing a contract even though requesting for one. This is because they were 
denied and even pressured into accepting the offer due to the implication of offer withdrawal if they insisted 
on having a legally binding contract. Considering that the accommodation came from the assurance of the 
reliable nature of the accommodation listing agency and referral, they felt okay with proceeding with the ac -
commodation. 
But the lack of a contract caused them many issues, including biased treatment, invasion of privacy, insuffi -
cient access to amenities such as heating which was promised during the initial conversations and the most 
serious of all untimely notice to evict when there was a dispute of the tenants staying in the house during the 
winter holiday festivities. 11Based on these experiences the participant offered the following insights: 
• Need for clarity in housing and contract rules
• More control and restraint on the actions of landlords will prevent such unethical practices
• Making contracts a requisite in any tenancy. 
• Simplified presentation of information on legal implications of housing agreements such as language, 
infographics and video explanations for ease of understanding
• The presence of a community feature should there be technology or applications developed to address 
legal parameters such as housing contracts. 
Our participant’s experience further cemented the need for an app that considered non-functionality elements 
such as background, culture, and fear all of which had contributed to their decision-making. 
Legal Aid Board Interview Takeaway:
Our conversion and further resources provided by a member of the research function from the Legal Aid 
Board gave us an understanding of the available assistance that can be found through the organisation. They 
are as follows: 
The Legal Aid Board’s activities are governed by legislation Civil Legal Aid Act 1995 and associated regula -
tions. These legal frameworks outline the scope, eligibility criteria, and other aspects of legal aid provision.
The Legal Aid Board covers civil legal aid (divorce, child care, damages, contract breach, employment mat -
ters) and three of the four criminal legal aid schemes. These are non-statutory Criminal Legal Aid Schemes, 
namely: The Garda Station Legal Advice Revised Scheme. The Legal Aid – Custody Issues Scheme. The 
Criminal Assets Bureau Ad-hoc Legal Aid Scheme. (Criminal Legal Aid & Ad-hoc Schemes - Further Infor -
mation, n.d.)
IP (internationally protected) clients approach the Legal Aid Board through various sources, including the In -
ternational Protection Office, NGOs, and the Garda Síochána. Legislation guides the entitlement of IP clients 
to access the Board.
Accommodation to language restraints is addressed through leaflets in multiple languages available on the 
Legal Aid Board’s website. The “Common Legal Problems” page outlines the main areas of work in an easily 
understood manner.
However, the legal aid board does not deal with small claims. 
Services of the legal aid board are only offered to those who pass the eligibility check and have merits to their 
case. 
We found the need to have such a conversation just so we could understand the current availability and limita -
tions of publicly funded resources so we could better tailor the app to the needs of our target.
Define User Personas
Based on our interviews and survey findings we were able to create our user personas.12
BIOGRAPHY
GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
CHALLENGESMOTIVATIONS
EXPECTATIONS FROM THE
SOLUTIONTECHNOLOGY FAMILIARITY  PERSONALITY
TASTES AND HOBBIES
ART PHOTOGRAPHY TRAVEL SYMPOSIUM  Creative                 
Sentimental
ExtrovertMethodical
Thoughtful
IntrovertMaya Iyer
Marketing Specialist
Age: 35 years
Sex: Female
Marital status: MarriedNationality: Indian 
Education: Graduate
Occupation: Graphic Designer
Maya moved to Dublin w ith her husband, who is
working in the tech industry, about two years ago. She
moved here as a student of Visual Design at a graduate
level. While they are both comfortable in new places,
they find themselves in a new country, navigating
various aspects of life, including understanding legal
systems with respect to employment housing, and
ensuring their visas are in order.
Maya is keen on understanding the legal systems in
Ireland, particularly in areas related to visas and
employment laws, to ensure compliance and make
informed decisions.
Maya is in the process of searching for a permanent
residence. She wants to understand Irish housing
laws, rental agreements, and tenant rights to secure
stable housing for her and her husband.
Cultural Unfamiliarity: Maya is adjusting to the
cultural landscape and nuances of Ireland, and
owing to her introvertedness is underconfident in
navigating visa and employment law issues.
Her unfamiliarity with the judicial system and jargon
also makes her research with online sources difficult
to navigate. Maya is motivated by the desire for stability,
both in terms of her legal status in Ireland and
her housing situation. She is driven to build a
successful career while ensuring a comfortable
life for herself and her husband in their new
home.
She values resources that simplify legal
information, offer guidance on housing matters,
and provide insights into career advancement
opportunities. An app that addresses her specific
concerns, is user-friendly, and respects her time
constraints would greatly support her in her
journey of settling down in Ireland.
VOLUNTEERINGMaya is tech-savvy and relies on her
smartphone for most daily tasks. She prefers
apps that are user-friendly, visually
appeal ing, and provide clear information.13
BIOGRAPHY
GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
CHALLENGESMOTIVATIONS
EXPECTATIONS FROM THE
SOLUTIONTECHNOLOGY FAMILIARITY  PERSONALITY
TASTES AND HOBBIES
HIKING MUSIC SOCIALISATION READING  Creative                 
Sentimental
ExtrovertMethodical
Thoughtful
IntrovertIvan Polunin
Pharm asist
Age: 30 years
Sex: Male
Marital status: SingleNationality: Ukranian
Education: Graduate
Occupation: Pharmasist
Ivan is a Ukranian refugee who soug ht asylum in
Ireland due to the ongoing war in his home country. He
arrived in Dublin six months ago and is currently
navigating the challenges of establishing a new life in a
foreign land. Having worked as a pharmacist in Ukraine
Ivan is determined to rebuild his life and contribute to
his new community.
Ivan’s primary goal is to secure legal stability in
Ireland. Understanding his rights, obligations, and
the asylum process is crucial to him.
 is eager to find employment in Ireland.
Understanding his rights in the Irish job market and
understanding how he can find employment under
his visa status
Ivan is proficient in Ukrainian and English, but he is
not fluent and the legal and bureaucratic language in
Ireland can be challenging. Simplified and translated
information would greatly assist him.
As a refugee, Ivan faces financial constraints, making
it challenging to afford legal representation or
support services.Ivan is motivated by the desire to rebuild his life
in Ireland. He seeks stability, both legally and
personally, and is eager to contribute to his new
community through employment and
community engagement.
Ivan is a resilient and determined individual
navigating the complexities of star ting afresh in a
foreign country. He values resources that simplify
legal information, provide guidance, visa and
employment and foster a sense of community. An
app that addresses his specific concerns, respects
cultural differences, and offers a supportive
network would greatly assist him
ACTIVISMIvan has a smartphone that he uses for
communication and accessing essential
information. An app that is user- friendly and
provides valuable legal information in his
native language would be highly beneficial.14
Creative Design and
 Lo-fi Prototypes 15Develop: Card Sorting 
Having secured our data from the survey results and visualised our user audience. We took to identifying all the 
features and elements we wanted in our app so as to better understand how to sketch our Lo-fi prototype. So 
for this, we decided to conduct a card sorting exercise amongst ourselves. Card sorting can be a really useful 
methodology to inform the development of information architecture, determine hierarchy in applications, and 
organize displays and controls on interfaces. (Baxter, 2015) As we aimed to create a navigation structure that 
would be most natural for our users and to make their experience using the app better, we felt this exercise 
would be insightful to us. 
We chose the closed card sorting method because we already had our main categories from section 3 of our 
survey. We identified the following features necessary and that we wanted to include in the interface of our app.
Fig 3 Card Sorting Activity (made by the team) 16User Flow
We decided to map a user flow as it is the path that a user takes while navigating through 
a website or application is referred to as user flow. It describes the steps and interactions 
that a user takes to complete a specific task or goal. (Goel et al., 2022) This would help 
us visualise the potential way in which our users interact and navigate the app. 
Fig 4 User Flow Chart (made by the team) 
Information Architecture
Information architecture in design is essentially the organization and structure of information within a system 
or application. It involves the arrangement and labelling of content, navigation, and interaction design to en -
sure that users can easily find and understand the information they need. (Hannah, 2023) 
We are designing the information architecture so we can create a seamless experience for our users navigating 
through the app.17
Prototyping 
Based on what we identified during the Card-Sorting process, User Flow and Information Architecture, we be -
gan designing our Lo-fi prototypes. To do so we split ourselves into two groups to come up with two versions 
of the Lo-fi prototypes that stemmed from our interpretations of the requirements. Fig 5 Information Architecture  (made by the team) 18Lo-fi Prototype 1
This was our first Lo-fi prototype. And the team working on this was inspired by the community and support 
segment of our card-sorting activity. With this, we envisioned a community-driven post-comment system with -
in the app where users can share their legal concerns, seek advice, and receive insights from others who may 
have experienced similar situations.
We tried to have a forum-like system where community members can articulate their concerns, and get in -
sights, resources and advice from fellow community members. This would also allow them to get an informed 
perspective on their situation or one similar to theirs by other legal professionals lending their voice to the 
discussion. 
The idea behind the community space was also to offer a preliminary space for information gathering. The 
community-driven approach would allow for different perspectives and make legal insights more accessible, 
particularly for those who may be hesitant to immediately contact a lawyer. 
Apart from this, prototype 1 also has features such as: 
• Sign-up page 
• Finding a lawyer 
• Navigating through lawyer profiles that would highlight their expertise, experience, and availability using 
a streamlined interface.
•  A chat feature with said lawyer who can give you advice on your situation. 
• Searching for precedences with filters such as case subject (employment, housing etc.)  
• Current news in the field
• Legal Resources such as document templates, law terms etc. 
• Language setting/translation 19User Story
I want to post my housing-related legal concerns on the app’s community forum feature.
I want to utilize the app’s community forum feature to gain insights into employment contract terms in Ireland 
especially due to my visa status as an asylum seeker.By engaging with the community and accessing shared resources, I aim to make informed decisions regarding 
my housing situation.
Through this process, I aim to make informed decisions about the job offer and navigate employment-related 
legalities with confidence.Maya:
Ivan:20Lo-fi Prototype 2
21The team working on Lo-fi prototype 2 was inspired by the connecting with lawyers segment of the card sort -
ing process and aimed to develop a communication mechanism that needs to be established between the user 
and legal service provider. 
The design is centred on facilitating effective communication between legal professionals and users seeking 
assistance.
 
We envisioned a service where users could connect with lawyers or consultants based on their concerns. The 
app would suggest lawyers who had relevant experience in the legal field of the user’s problem and Users could 
easily navigate through these suggested profiles and establish contact with their lawyer of choice. This would 
allow for a higher rate of success in establishing a better fit and seamless connection between those in need of 
legal advice and professionals who can provide it. 
The feature was further extended to monetize consultation at a subsidised rate to the market fee of a lawyer 
where as opposed to a no-limits chat feature, a person seeking advice would be allowed three free interactions 
to understand the lawyer/consultant’s approach to helping them with their issue. This would allow users to 
weigh their options and make an informed decision about whose service they’d like to employ in working 
through their issue.
Apart from this, prototype 2 also has features such as: 
• Marketing slides that summarised the core functioning of the app
• Sign-up page 
• Hot topics, or frequently asked assistance on specific subject matter 
• Current news in the field
• Legal knowledge glossary
• Finding a legal service based on location 
• Search feature
User Story
 I want to sublet an apartment in Dublin but I need to familiarize myself as the process is different to my home 
country. So I aim to use the app to learn more about my housing-related legal concerns. Maya:22 My goal is to use the app to gain insight into the employment contract terms, especially concerning my visa 
status for my new job opportunity. Ivan:
Lo-fi 1 vs Lo-fi 2
We had two users test the prototypes and acess its features, which allowed us to dermine the pros and cons of 
the application
Lo-fi 1
Table 1 Advantages and Disadvantages of Lo-fi 1  (made by the team) 23Lo-fi 2
Table 1 Advantages and Disadvantages of Lo-fi 2  (made by the team) 24
Hi-fi  
Prototype25The designs of both Lo-fi prototypes 1 and 2 imagined the app as more than just an information hub but rather 
a collaborative ecosystem where legal insights and support from both users and legal communities converged. 
And this essentially becomes the ethos of the app. 
While the features from Lo-fi prototype 1 addressed many issues and had the potential to address many aspects 
of the spectrum of legal issues one can face, Lo-fi prototype 2 had some unique features that made the app 
holistic and protected both lawyers and users. 
So for our Hi-fi prototype, we decided to combine features of both the Lo-fi prototypes and make a third Lo-
fi rendition of our ideas. We also noticed that the key issue of privacy was not addressed in either of the two 
prototypes so that was added in this one. 
Considering this the final prototype had the following features:
• Marketing slides summarising  app services 
• Sign up or Login page
• Search bar 
• Search filters: Location, topic, relevance, date
• Write/ post your question or case
• Community forum- post-comment system
• User profile- Anonymous posting and identity
• Lawyer profile 
• Chat feature with end-to-end encryption to protect privacy
• 3 times free and then the paid consultation scheme
• Resources section- Document templates, Legal glossary, Find a legal service near me
• Personal settings page- Logout, profile, anonymity settings, app display settings, language settings, privacy 
consent, 
• App developers details- Contact details, helpHi-fi Prototype 
We have attached below the images of our Hi-fi prototype. But you may access the interactive prototype here 
or at this link: 
https://www.figma.com/proto/XSsl40Z5r68NE9I2dRzxQv/Lawmate-Final-App? -
type=design&node-id=0-21&t=ibivNRj7rpvdpc4O-1&scaling=min-zoom&page-id=0%3A1&start -
ing-point-node-id=0%3A21&mode=design26Lo-fi Wireframe of Hi-fi Prototype 
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
Evaluation 53S.no Heuristic Implication App Evaluation 
1Visibility of system statusThe interface must provide 
users with updates on the 
system’s connection status 
and the level of security 
protection.Users did not routinely experience instances 
that demanded system feedback on specific 
pages. Nevertheless, the app designers ad -
dressed some of these concerns by integrating 
loading icons and symbols into certain pages.
2Match between the system 
and the real worldThe system should utilise 
language familiar to users 
and refrain from using tech -
nical terms, aligning with 
everyday language 
conventions. The app makes use of simple vocabulary and 
icons that match their real-world conversations 
and interactions.
3 User control and freedomUsers should be given the 
freedom to customise the 
interface, especially securi -
ty features, and be provided 
with a clear option to reset 
settings to default. This pro -
motes transparency in secu -
rity rather than relying on 
hidden measureUsers expressed appreciation for the function -
ality of the “exit” and “back” buttons featured 
on the app’s pages. Nevertheless, they reported 
issues with the navigation buttons, citing un -
responsiveness or sluggishness, which forced 
them to resort to alternative clicking pathways.
4 Consistency and standardsAvoid causing ambiguity 
among users regarding the 
consistency of meanings, 
terms, or actions across var -
ious situations. Adhere to 
standardised conventions 
consistently across different 
platforms.At no point did users raise concerns about not 
understanding a symbol or toolIn 1990, Jakob Nielsen and Rolf Molich introduced ten guidelines aimed at UI development. Drawing 
from years of work experience and observations, they formulated these heuristics to assist in user inter -
face design (Aela, 2022). Utilising Nielsen’s heuristics, our assessment focused on the UI and UX aspects 
experienced by our users. The evaluation was carried out by observing two different users. The users 
were asked to openly note their pain points without fear of judgement. Subsequently, participants were 
queried about their encounter, and both individuals chose to revisit to address specific inquiries raised by 
the evaluator. At the end of both sessions, the users highlighted commendable design elements as well as 
identified areas necessitating enhancements. This report aims to delineate these improvement areas in no 
particular order.Evaluation54S.no Heuristic Implication App Evaluation 
5 Error preventionFurnish users with compre -
hensive security error noti -
fications devoid of specific 
codes, followed by facilitat -
ing straightforward 
recovery methods.Users were not required to interact with spe -
cific error messages due to the app’s abridged 
functionality.
6Recognition rather than 
recallOffer users guidance on 
utilising the service func -
tionalities and security
 measures.Right from the start page, instructional guide -
lines for app usage were prominently displayed 
and readily accessible.
7Flexibility and efficiency of 
useThe system needs to strike 
a balance by offering ade -
quate information for begin -
ners without overwhelming 
experienced users. Empha -
sising the ease of learning 
and remembering security 
actions is crucial, under -
scoring the system’s imper -
ative need for user-friendli -
ness and accessibility to all 
levels of users.Both participants, despite being first-time us -
ers, did not report encountering any difficul -
ties while navigating the app. It is worth not -
ing, however, that the individuals had attained 
Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees, respectively, 
as their highest completed educational levels.
8Aesthetic and minimalist 
designThe interface and dialogue 
should exclusively present 
pertinent system and securi -
ty details, devoid of any un -
suitable advertising content.Participants praised the app’s simplicity and di -
rectness in design. Nonetheless, they expressed 
apprehensions regarding the size of certain text 
elements. One user remarked that the colours 
were “too cool” for her taste, suggesting a pref -
erence for a more vibrant or engaging visual 
palette.
9Recognition, diagnosis, and 
recovery from errorsYour designs should aid 
users in recognizing and 
resolving potential issues 
and errors effectively. Use 
straightforward, jargon-free 
error messages that eluci -
date the problem and pro -
pose potential solutions.Once more, users did not encounter specific er -
ror messages owing to the app’s limited func -
tionality. However, one user expressed appreci -
ation for the “or speak to a lawyer” button on 
the post page which prompted her to consid -
er whether she preferred to publicly (though 
anonymously) disclose her legal issue or seek 
advice from a lawyer in private.
10 Help and documentationProvide clear documen -
tation to aid users in task 
completion. While other 
heuristics aim to prevent er -
rors and ensure independent 
navigation, ongoing assis -
tance remains crucial for 
users at all times.The app contained options for help on the user 
profile page.55While affirming our commitment to user privacy, users suggested incorporating a passcode  or fingerprint lock 
at the application’s entry point would make them feel more secure. This additional security feature empowers 
users to maintain control over their privacy, particularly when their devices are unattended.
Furthermore, users highlighted the default font size as petite. While we acknowledge the potential for font 
adjustment within the “settings” section, we recognize how the default font size can affect users- especially 
first-time users and recommend a magnification.
Additionally, within certain frames, the coexistence of the “me” button below and the profile avatar at the 
screen’s top section has the potential to cause confusion. Merging these buttons into a singular function could 
optimise space utilisation, potentially accommodating other designated sections like “communities” or “menu” 
on the navigation bar.
The user feedback also raised concerns regarding the responsiveness of button clicks. Acknowledging this 
issue, we recognize the constraints of our team’s reliance on available free resources. It’s apparent that en -
hancing this aspect would necessitate access to more comprehensive resources and advance team skill sets for 
possible improvement. Lastly, while acknowledging the minimalist design approach, there exists scope for 
enhancing the app’s aesthetic appeal. 
The assessment of the Lawmate app encountered several limitations that must be acknowledged.
• Absence of a Specialized Evaluation Team: Ideally, a specialised evaluation team, unconnected to the 
app’s design process, would have provided an unbiased analysis.
• Constrained Audience Sampling: Time and accessibility constraints confined the evaluation to two ran -
domly selected users thereby recognizing the potential for unidentified issues as the app reaches a broader 
and more diverse user base.
• Scope of App Design: The hi-fi evaluated in this study has limited coverage, with certain pages underde -
veloped. The app was designed solely for study purposes to provide an overview of its design and flow. To 
achieve functional usability, extensive design, testing, and evaluation of multiple subpages are necessary.
Overall, the application was well received by the users. They commended the wealth of information, the app 
structure for anonymity and the affordability of consultation. With additional research and testing substantial 
enhancements, more indicators can be identified to increase the application’ s overall performance.Limitations of this Evaluation
Conclusion 
In summary, the development of the Lawmate application has been a significant stride towards democ -
ratising legal access in Ireland. This user-centred approach, aiming to deliver affordable legal aid, has 
revealed crucial insights into user experiences, preferences, and concerns. Through an iterative design 
process, incorporating user feedback and interface adjustments, the application’s usability, accessibility, 
and functionality have been optimised. However, acknowledging the multifaceted nature of legal aid and 
the diverse user base, ongoing enhancements and user-centred updates remain imperative. The collabora -
tive effort between developers, legal experts, and users has set a precedent for user-centric innovation in 
the realm of legal assistance, ensuring that the app continually aligns with the evolving needs of its users 
while striving for accessibility and affordability in legal understanding.56References
1. Allison, N. (2023). From semantic weight to legal ontology via classification of concepts in legal texts. The Law 
Teacher, 57(2), 201–217. https://doi.org/10.1080/03069400.2023.2173918
2. Baxter, K. (2015). Card sorting. In Elsevier eBooks (pp. 302–337). https://doi.org/10.1016/b978-0-12-800232-
2.00011-0
3. Citizensinformation.Ie. (n.d.-a). Legal aid and advice. https://www.citizensinformation.ie/en/justice/le -
gal-aid-and-advice/#:~:text=The%20Legal%20Aid%20Board%20provides,be%20merit%20in%20the%20case.& -
text=An%20explanation%20of%20civil%20legal,able%20to%20avail%20of%20it
4. Citizensinformation.Ie. (n.d.-b). Representation in court. https://www.citizensinformation.ie/en/justice/civil-law/
representation-in-court/
5. Civil legal aid and advice. (n.d.). https://www.legalaidboard.ie/en/our-services/legal-aid-services/how-do-i-apply-
for-civil-legal-aid-/
6. Criminal Legal Aid & Ad-hoc Schemes - Further information. (n.d.). https://www.legalaidboard.ie/en/our-services/
criminal-legal-aid/criminal-legal-aid-and-ad-hoc-schemes-further-information/#:~:text=The%20Criminal%20
Legal%20Aid%20Section,Ad%2Dhoc%20Legal%20Aid%20Scheme
7. Family problems. (n.d.). https://www.legalaidboard.ie/en/our-services/legal-aid-services/common-legal-problems/
8. ‘Few practise law for fun, fame or philanthropy’: Ireland’s legal costs problem. (n.d.). Business Post. https://www.
businesspost.ie/news-focus/few-practise-law-for-fun-fame-or-philanthropy-irelands-legal-costs-problem/#:~:tex -
t=Rates%20charged%20by%20the%20big,also%20be%20discounted%20or%20negotiated.
9. Goal 16 | Department of Economic and Social Affairs. (n.d.). https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal16
10. Goel, G., Tanwar, P., & Sharma, S. (2022). UI-UX design using User Centred Design (UCD) method. 2022 In -
ternational Conference on Computer Communication and Informatics (ICCCI). https://doi.org/10.1109/icc -
ci54379.2022.9740997
11. Hahn, J. A. (2023). Challenging legal incomprehension. In Oxford University Press eBooks (pp. 109-C5N49). 
https://doi.org/10.1093/oso/9780197674246.003.0005
12. Hannah, J. (2023, November 22). What is information architecture? - UX Design Institute. UX Design Institute. 
https://www.uxdesigninstitute.com/blog/what-is-information-architecture/
13. Hongdao, Q., Bibi, S., Khan, A., Ardito, L., & Khaskheli, M. B. (2019). Legal Technologies in Action: The future of 
the legal market in light of disruptive innovations. Sustainability, 11(4), 1015. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11041015
14. Lupanda, I. S., & Janse van Rensburg, J. T. (2021). Design guidelines for mobile applications. In Proceedings of the 
15th International Conference on Interfaces and human-computer interaction 2021 and 14th International Confer -
ence on Game and Entertainment Technologies (pp. 92-99).
15. Majid, R. A., Noor, N. L. M., Adnan, W. a. W., & Mansor, S. (2009). A survey on HCI considerations in the software 
development life cycle. Association for Computing Machinery, 21–24. https://doi.org/10.1145/1655925.1655929
16. Mania, K. (2022). Legal Technology: Assessment of the legal tech industry’s potential. Journal of the Knowledge 
Economy, 14(2), 595–619. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13132-022-00924-z
17. Mueller, V ., Billings, L., Mogues, T., Peterman, A., & Wineman, A. (2017). Filling the legal void? Impacts of a com -
munity-based legal aid program on women’s land-related knowledge, attitudes, and practices. Oxford Development 
Studies, 46(4), 453–469. https://doi.org/10.1080/13600818.2017.1414174
18. Murauer, N. (2018). Design Thinking: Using Photo Prototyping for a user-centered Interface Design for Pick-by-
Vision Systems. Association for Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/3197768.3201532
19. Nielsen’s heuristics: 10 usability principles to improve UI design - aela school. Aela School - Where Ambitious De -
signers Thrive. (2022, September 2). https://aelaschool.com/en/interactiondesign/10-usability-heuristics-ui-design/ 
20. Office of the Attorney General. (n.d.-a). Civil Legal Aid Act, 1995. (C) Houses of the Oireachtas Service. https://
www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1995/act/32/enacted/en/html
21. Office of the Attorney General. (n.d.-b). Refugee Act, 1996. (C) Houses of the Oireachtas Service. https://www.
irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1996/act/17/enacted/en/html5722. Office of the Attorney General. (n.d.-c). Social Welfare Consolidation Act 2005. (C) Houses of the Oireachtas Ser -
vice. https://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2005/act/26/enacted/en/html
23. On-Line Financial Eligibility Indicator. (n.d.). https://www.legalaidboard.ie/en/our-services/legal-aid-services/
on-line-financial-eligibility-indicator/
24. Shibboleth Authentication Request. (n.d.-a). https://heinonline-org.ucd.idm.oclc.org/HOL/Page?lname=Parisot -
to&handle=hein.journals/appeal24&collection=&page=79&collection=journals
25. Shibboleth Authentication Request. (n.d.-b). https://heinonline-org.ucd.idm.oclc.org/HOL/LuceneSearch?other_
cols=yes&collection
26. Vicious cycle of low pay and overwork undermines legal aid. (n.d.). https://www.lawsociety.ie/gazette/top-sto -
ries/2023/february/vicious-cycle-of-low-pay-and-overwork-undermines-legal-aid58Appendix A- Summary Poster
Surveys 
Interviews 
Customer PersonaResearch  
LAWMATE
Development & Design Process
Ideate 
To better define the user interface of our app,
we used three tools:
Card sorting: We used this to identify and
organize all the features and elements we
wanted in the app.
User flow:  This illustrated the potential steps
our users would take to navigate through the
app
Information archetype: This helped map out
the interaction design of our application
system. Research & Requirements
User Flow, Inf ormation Architect ure  &
Card Sorting
Lofi Wireframes
Design Guide
Brown denotes warmness, stability, comfort,
wisdom, trustworthiness, and simplicity.
Orange  is a colour of optimism, warmth,
cheeriness, speed, confidence, success,
bravery, and sociability.
Ivory  is a calm colour,  with some of the
pureness associated with white, though it’s a
bit warmer, it can lend a sense of elegance
and calm to a site.  
 
Lato typography:  We chose this font for its
readability on digital platforms and its clean &
and contemporary lookLow-fidelity prototypes: We used paper-
based prototyping and no user
interactions were allowed. We designed
two sets of hand-drawn mock-ups. After
doing a user testing on the mockup we
combined the best features to create final
low fidelity prototype.#263238 #F06103 #6A3E21 #F5F0EC
Colour
TypographyLATO  
Hifi Prototype
The high-fidelity prototype is a polished
simulation of the final product. Made use of
design guidelines, colour theory and Lato
Typography to design our application.
We have added key features like explore
page, joining communities, consulting
lawyers and checking for legal resourc es.
There are other features as well:  
Marketing slides summarising app
services 
Sign up or Login page
Search bar 
Search filters: Location, topic, relevance,
date
Write/ post your question or case
Community forum- post-comment system
User profile- Anonymous posting and
identity
Lawyer profile 
Chat feature with end-to-end encryption
to protect privacy
3 times free and then the paid
consultation scheme
Resources section- Document templates,
Legal glossary, Find a legal service near
me
Personal settings page- Logout, profile,
anonymity settings, app display settings,
language settings, privacy consent,  
App developers details- Contact details,
helpTesting  & Evaluation The idea for the app came from the UN SDG goal
16 which is to foster peace justice and strong
institutions. 
As international students ourselves, we have often
struggled with understanding legalities in
employment, housing contracts or even visas and
so we wanted to come up with a solution that
makes accessing legal information on such issue
easier and affordable.This phase was carried out in 4 steps:
Research:  we researched literature on both
best design practices and Legal issues & and the
availability of legal aid. 
Survey:  We conducted an online survey for 2
months which gave us insight into the target
demographic, experiences, pain points and
expectations  from this app.  
Interviews:  Interviews were conducted on both
the target audience and a member of the Legal
Aid Board. This was to understand the problem
from both perspectives.
Customer persona:  The above information
allowed us to create User personas to better
empathise with our target.
The results from the above steps gave us the
information that the app had to allow access to
legal services and personnel, is affordable, user-
friendly and has to involve community support.  
We conducted the evaluation of our design by using
both Nielsen's Heuristics and User testing with two
objective participants. 
While conducting the evaluation we identified certain
areas that could be improved and have outlined a way to
improve them:  
Security Enhancement:  Users suggest adding a
passcode or fingerprint lock for enhanced privacy
and control.
Font Size Adjustment: Users recommend
implementing a magnification feature for better font
size adjustment.
Navigation Bar Optimisation: Users propose merging
the "me" button and profile avatar for improved
space utilisation.
Button Click Responsiveness:  Users express
concerns about button click responsiveness, noting
resource constraints.
Aesthetic Appeal Enhancement:  Users see potential
for enhancing the app's aesthetic appeal within a
minimalist design approach.59Appendix A- Survey Questions
1) What is your age?
   - Under 18
   - 18-24
   - 25-34
   - 35-44
   - 45-54
   - 55-64
   - 65 and over
2) What is your gender?
   - Male
   - Female
   - Non-binary
   - Prefer not to say
3) What is your Nationality? 
4) What is your English language proficiency?    
   - Fluent in English
   - Proficient but not fluent in English
   - Limited English proficiency
   - Other (please specify)
5) Are you a working professional or a student in Ireland? 
   I am a Student
   I am a Working Professional
6) If Student, what is your Level of study? 
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Phd
Other (please specify)
7) If working professional, what industry or sector do you work in?
Healthcare
Technology
Education
Finance
Manufacturing
Retail60Government
Law and Order
Other (please specify):
8) Have you ever needed legal advice or assistance while living in Ireland?
   - Yes
   - No
9) If yes, What were the main challenges you faced when seeking legal advice in Ireland?
10) Have you ever interacted with a lawyer in Ireland?
   - Yes
   - No
11) What legal issues or concerns do you typically need assistance with as an international civilian in Ireland? (Select 
all that apply)
   - Visa and residence, immigration
   - Rental, Housing & tenancy
   - Employment and tax
   - Health insurance and medical
   - Civil and Constitutional rights
   - Contract and legally binding documents
   - Union rights
   - Traffic and Road laws
12) What features do you consider most important in a legal advice app? (Select all that apply)
   - Legal information and resources
   - Connecting with pro bono lawyers
   - Real-time chat with lawyers
   - Language support and translation
   - User support and guidance
   - Easy navigation and search
   - Other (please specify)
13) How do you prefer to communicate with a lawyer through the app?
   - Text chat
   - Audio call
   - Video call
   - Prefer not to interact directly6114) Would you consider paying for additional and advanced services such as consultation?
   - Yes
   - No
15) If yes, how much would you pay? (scalable question)
16) How important is it for you that the app is accessible to individuals with disabilities?
   - Very important
   - Somewhat important
   - Not very important
   - Not important at all
17) How concerned are you about the security of your personal information and legal interactions within the app?
   - Very concerned
   - Somewhat concerned
   - Not very concerned
   - Not concerned at all
18) How would you rate the necessity of an app that offers legal aid?
19) Do you have any additional comments, suggestions, or concerns regarding an app that offers legal advice and sup -
port for international civilians in Ireland?
20) If you would like to be involved in user testing or stay updated on the app’s development, please provide your email 
address:62Appendix C- Target Interview Questions
1. To start, could you please share a bit about your background and experience in Ireland?
2. In terms of housing, have you faced any difficulties or uncertainties regarding Irish housing laws or rent -
al agreements?
3. How confident do you feel in your understanding of your rights and obligations outlined in your housing 
contract?
4. Have you sought legal advice or assistance to clarify aspects of your housing contract?
5. Have you ever been involved in a dispute related to your housing contract? If so, how was it resolved?
6. Were there instances where you felt your rights outlined in the contract were not adequately protected?
7. What resources, such as online platforms, legal guides, or community support, have you used to navigate 
housing contract issues?
8. Do you feel there is sufficient information available to tenants about their rights and responsibilities?
9. Based on your experiences, what advice would you give to someone navigating housing contracts in 
Ireland?
10. If you could change one thing about the process of dealing with housing contract issues, what would it 
be?
11. How do you think information on visas, housing, and employment laws could be made more accessible 
and understandable for immigrants like yourself?
12. If we have an app or a resource to assist immigrants like yourself with such legal matters, what features 
or information do you think would be most beneficial?63Appendix D- Legal Aid Interview Questions
1. Could you tell me briefly about your organization? 
2. I want to understand the kind of services that are offered by the Legal Aid Board. Could you explain it to 
me?
3. Who qualifies for Legal aid? And how is it measured? 
4. What are kinds of cases you usually deal with? 
5. How can one access the services of the Legal Aid Board?
6. In your experience, what are some common challenges faced by immigrants and asylum seekers in ac -
cessing legal aid, and how does the Legal Aid Board address these challenges?
7. Are there any innovative approaches or solutions that the Legal Aid Board has implemented to better 
serve the immigrant and asylum-seeking community?
8. How does the Legal Aid Board engage in community outreach to ensure that immigrants and asylum 
seekers are aware of available legal aid services?
9. In your opinion, what impact does legal aid have on the lives of immigrants and asylum seekers?
10. Can you share insights into the capacity of the Legal Aid Board to handle an increasing number of cases, 
especially those related to immigration?
11. What resources, including personnel and technology, are currently allocated to addressing cases involv -
ing immigrants and asylum seekers?
12. Are there specific challenges related to resource allocation, and what strategies are in place to optimize 
the efficiency of case handling?
13. Are there specific criteria or methods for prioritizing cases, especially when dealing with a high volume 
of requests?
14. Are there measures in place to ensure that individuals in urgent situations receive timely legal assis -
tance?
15. Are there partnerships or collaborations with community organizations that enhance the reach and effec -
tiveness of the Legal Aid Board’s services?
16. Are there technologies or innovations being explored to streamline processes and reduce the administra -
tive burden associated with a large number of cases? And is there a future scope for employing the same?64Appendix E- Colour Theory and TypographyA  u ser  f o w  is a se x  o o  in x er acaons x ha x  describe x he x ypic al or  ideal se x  o o  sx ep s needed x o ac c oap lish a c oaaon x ask pero oraed w ix h a 
pr odu cx . M ap ping u ser  f o w s enables u s x o u nder sx and u ser  na vig a aon p a p erns,  allo w ing  u s x o d esign aor e in x u iav e in x ero ac e ans siap lio y  
u ser  jou rne y
U ser  g oes x o 
hoae p ag eR eg isx er s/L o g s I nS elec x s w ha x  u ser  
w an x s x o do x oda y /
S kipVisang  x he 
“Eeplor e ”  p ag eChec ks x he p osx s o o  
anon yaou s u ser s and  
can e v en c oaaen x  on 
x hea
C r ea x e a p osx
D oes u ser  w an x  x o 
c onsu lx  a la w y ernC114C oap ar e la w y er s 
on x heir  pr o fleS elec x  a la w y er  and 
fr sx  x hr ee 
c onsu la aon o r eeJ oin c oaau niaesEeplor e docu aen x  
x eap la x es and  o x her  
leg al r esou r c esP a y  x he La w y erD oes u ser  w an x s 
x o c on anu e 
c onsu la aonD oes u ser  
w an x s x o cr ea x e 
a posx nC114S TA R T
ENDYe s
Ye sYe sN o
N o
263238 F 5F 0E C F 06103 6A3E21263238F 5F 0E CF 061036A3E21
T ypo g r aph y  : La x oT ypo g r aph y  : La x o
T he c hoic e o o  c olor s in design, inclu ding o or  ou r  ap p,  in v olv es a c oabina aon o o  aesx he ac p r e o er enc es, p s y cholo gic al 
associa aons,  and c onsider a aons o or  u sab ilix y . /C28 er e ar e soae r easons w h y  x hese c olor s w er e c onsider ed su ix able o or  ou r  la w  
ap p/C26
/C52/C22 P r o o essionalisa and  S ophisaca aon/C26
/C23 T he c olor  c oabina aon o o  or ang e shad e /C18 br o w n cr eae c on v e y  a sense o o  pr o o essionalisa and sop hisac a aon. I n x he 
c on x e ex  o o  a la w  app , w her e x ru sx  and  cr edibilix y  ar e c ru cial, a sophisaca x ed  c olor  p ale p e c an help  esx ab lish a seriou s 
and r eliable iaag e/C22
/C19/C22 /C39 ara x h and A p pr oachabilix y/C26
/C23/C14 r o w n and  cr eae x ones o /C44 en e v ok e w ara x h and app r oac habilix y . I n x he feld o o  la w , w her e u ser s aa y  be seeking 
assisx anc e or  in o oraa aon in po x en aally  sx r essou l six u a aons, a w ara and in viang c olor  scheae can c on x ribu x e x o a aor e 
u ser /C18 o riendly  e ep erienc e/C22
/C32/C22 C onnecaon x o T r adiaonal E leaen x s/C26
/C23/C14 r o w n, especially  d ark er  shades,  can be associa x ed  w ix h x r adiaon and sx abilix y . F or  a la w  ap p,  x his can cr ea x e a link x o 
x he x r adiaonal and esx ablished na x u r e o o  legal pr acac es, o osx ering  a sense o o  r eliab ilix y /C22
/C7/C22 /C6 ender /C18 N eu x r al and I nc lu siv e/C26
/C23 T he c oabina aon o o  or ang e/C18 br o w n cr eae is g ener ally  g ender /C18 neu x r al, w hich c an c on x ribu x e x o inclu sivix y . I n x he legal 
feld, w her e d iv er se au dienc es aa y  eng ag e w ix h x he ap p, u sing c olor s x ha x  ar e app ealing x o a br oad  spec x ru a o o  u ser s is 
bene fc ial/C22
/C5/C22 R eadab ilix y  and A c c essib ilix y/C26
/C23 C r eae c olor s, w hen u sed in app r op ria x e c on x r asx , c an enhanc e x e ex  r ead abilix y . I n a la w  app  w her e u ser s ar e lik ely  x o 
engag e w ix h a lo x  o o  x e ex u al c on x en x , a c olor  sc heae x ha x  su pp orx s eas y  r eading is essen aal /C22
/C51/C22 /C14r and D i /C2 er en aa aon/C26
/C23 U sing an or ang e/C18 br o w n cr eae c olor  sc heae can help  x he la w  app  sx and ou x  o r oa c oap e ax or s. Choosing  a u ni/C15 u e c olor  
pale p e c an c on x ribu x e x o b r and  di/C2 er en aa aon and aak e x he app aor e aeaor ab le/C22
/C0/C22 P s y cholo g ical Associa aons/C26
/C23 C olor s c an e v ok e sp ecifc ps y c holo g ical associa aons. F or  e eaaple, or ang e is o /C44 en associa x ed w ix h w ara x h and ener g y , 
w hile br o w n is assoc ia x ed w ix h sx abilix y  and  r eliabilix y . C oabining x hese w ix h c r eae can cr ea x e a balanc ed  and 
haraoniou s o eel.Choosing  a o on x  o or  app  d esign is a c ru c ial decision x ha x  can iapacx  x he o v er all u ser  
e eperienc e and visu al id en ax y  o o  x he app . /C91 L ax o /C91  is a pop u lar  x ype o ac e/C93
/C91 L ax o /C91  is kno w n o or  ix s e e c ellen x  r eadabilix y , bo x h in prin x  and on scr eens. I x s clean and 
siaple desig n aak es ix  eas y  o or  u ser s x o r ead c on x en x  w ix hou x  sx r aining x heir  e y es. T his  
is esp ecially  iap orx an x  in ap ps w her e u ser s c onsu ae a sig nifc an x  aaou n x  o o  x e ex /C93
T he design o o  /C91 L ax o /C91  g iv es ix  a aodern and  c on x eap or ary  aesx he ac. I x s r ou nded 
le p ero oras and open spac ing c on x ribu x e x o a clean and o r esh look,  w hic h can b e 
ap pealing  in aod ern ap p desig n/C93
/C91 L ax o /C91  is op aai/C59ed o or  b o x h w eb and aobile app lica aons. I x s desig n x ak es in x o 
c onsider a aon x he r e/C15 u ir eaen x s o o  digix al displa y s, ensu ring  clarix y  and leg ib ilix y  ac r oss 
v ariou s scr een si/C59es and  r esolu aons.